Learning Tips
I've had a lot of questions about the best ways to study for this class; here are some of my tips.  You can also check out the Learning How To Learn coursera for other general tips (learning about how to learn is definitely a useful investment for the future!).  And feel free to add your own advice in the comments below!

Read the lecture notes before lecture.  The material takes some time to sink in.  You'll be able to pick up the nuances if you've already got a gist of what will be covered.Read Summarize the lecture notes.  Reading passively is one of the least effective ways to learn the material and unfortunately an easy way to trick yourself into thinking you've learned something when you haven't.  Every section or few paragraphs or so look away from the lecture notes and try to see if you can summarize what just happened.  You'll probably uncover a lot of gaps in what you thought you understood -- this is good, now you can go back and fix those (by rereading, asking a question during lecture, coming to office hours, etc).Explaining the material to a friend is an even better way to do this.!!!!****Recall > recognition****!!!!  Pretty much all science around learning can be summarized by recall being way more effective than recognition.  Trying to recall what you did in a lecture is more effective than rereading notes you took during lecture.  "Reviewing" material should involve very little rereading and should definitely not be the focus of your reviewing.  Rereading should only happen when you're going back to fill in gaps in your understanding that you uncovered while trying to recall the material.  Recall mainly happens in two ways.Explicitly trying to recall the material.  I literally mean asking yourself questions about the material like "How does induction work?" and then explaining it to yourself or a friend.Doing problems.  Problems implicitly force you to recall the material in order to solve the problem.Start the homework early.  Creativity isn't something that can be turned on an hour before the deadline.  Instead read all the problems immediately to give them time to simmer in the back of your mind.Seriously attempt each problem on your own before discussing it with others.When studying for exams don't do an entire exam and then look at the solutions.  Look at the solution for a problem right after doing it.  Immediate feedback is more effective than delayed feedback.Reflect on each problem before moving to the next.  Questions I like to ask include:

What were the key insights in this problem?How was this similar to other problems I've faced in the past?What was the challenging part of this problem?Is there anything I need to review to be able to solve problems like this?If I changed this problem in X way, how would that make a difference?How could you make other problems that use the key insights from this problem?

When you get a problem wrong make note of it and come back to it later.  You want to make sure that whatever you learned from reading the solution actually sticks with you.  Make sure you're not just memorizing the solution though.  Focus on the "key insight" of the problem.I put problems I get wrong into a spaced repetition flashcard app called Anki.If you use spaced repetition, you never have to relearn material from the beginning of the semester.  Spaced repetition makes things stay in your memory much longer.  Check out Anki seriously.The most important thing is to understand the fundamentals.  Doing a ton of problems for practice is not bad, but if the goal in your practice is to do enough problems to be able to pattern match on an exam it definitely won't be effective.  Instead view problems as a way to find what you don't understand, then go back and try to relearn that material.Things you're confused on are the best areas for improvement.  The best way to get the most value for your effort is focusing on areas you're confused on.  Doing 10 problems on something you already understand well isn't going to be nearly as useful as doing 3 problems in something you're still shaky on.  If you're confused on something, don't let it stay that way.  Us TAs are here to help you, come to office hours!If you're not being challenged while studying, your study method is probably not effective.  This is a good heuristic to keep in mind.  Usually when you're not being challenged while studying, you're either studying the wrong thing (something you already understand very well) or studying too passively (simply rereading).

#pin
